THE ADVANCED X-RAY ASTROPHYSICS FACILITY MISSIONS

May 1993

Jerry Berg
Marshall Space Flight Center


	In the late 1990s, NASA will launch two complementary orbiting
observatories being developed as the Advanced X-ray Astrophysics Facility
(AXAF).  The AXAF program will enable detailed, long-term study of X-ray
emissions from the universe and the phenomena that produce them.  It is
expected to yield data that will improve knowledge and understanding in some of
the most fundamental areas of scientific investigation.

	Astronomers know whenever they observe X-ray emissions, they are
viewing the most violent processes in the universe, since a tremendous amount
of energy is required to generate X-rays. Such X-ray sources include neutron
stars, suspected black holes, debris from supernova explosions, quasars, the
centers of active galaxies, and hot gas in individual galaxies and galaxy
clusters.  However, these phenomena and objects -- among the most interesting
and puzzling in the universe -- are usually hidden from human observation,
obscured by vast clouds of interstellar or intergalactic dust.

	While clouds of matter in space hinder such observations with optical,
or light-gathering telescopes, X-rays are able to penetrate dust-shrouded areas
of the universe.  But, X-rays and other types of high-energy radiation are
absorbed by the Earth's atmosphere.  Therefore, it was only in the 1970s, with
placement into Earth orbit of specialized X-ray instruments, that the first
significant surveys of space for X-ray sources were made.  One of these
instruments, the High- Energy Astronomy Observatory (HEAO-2, widely known as
the Einstein X-ray Observatory), provided such exceptional results that
astrophysicists, working with NASA, proposed development of a much more capable
X-ray project.  The result was the Advanced X-ray Astrophysics Facility or
AXAF.

	Originally planned to be accomplished as a single comprehensive
mission, AXAF was restructured in mid-1992 to consist of two smaller, more
specialized missions.  The program restructuring was necessary to stay within
budget constraints, while preserving a high percentage of the originally
planned AXAF scientific capabilities.

AXAF-I

	The AXAF-I mission will be especially suited for imaging
investigations.  It will develop and place into orbit a telescope for capturing
high resolution images and spectra of X-ray sources.  That is, its observations
will produce "picture-like" images analogous to those made in visible light
with an optical telescope.  However, it will use X-rays to create them, not
visible-energy wavelengths, so that the images will reveal otherwise-hidden
features, just as a medical X-ray does.  AXAF-I's capabilities in the area of
X-ray spectroscopy will complement its imaging function.  Spectra, or
spectrographs, reveal the "chemical fingerprint" of an object by separating the
radiation received from it according to wavelengths, much as a prism splits
visible light into constituent colors.  Again, AXAF performs these specialized
functions in the X-ray region rather than in visible wavelengths.

Key Features

	To provide these capabilities, AXAF-I will have a unique mirror
assembly.  In an X-ray instrument, the mirrors themselves are much different
from those used in optical telescopes.  With very short wavelengths and high
energy levels, X-rays are absorbed rather than reflected from the surface of a
conventional mirror.  Therefore, X-ray telescopes use "grazing-incidence"
mirrors -- finely polished cylinders of glass that look something like ordinary
drinking glasses with no bottom.  The walls of the cylinders are not straight,
however, but are very slightly angled so that X-rays graze off the surfaces,
like a stone skipping on a pond.  This configuration, coupled with a slight
curvature of the surfaces, funnels the rays toward a point of focus behind the
mirrors, in the focal plane.  AXAF-I's mirror assembly will consist of four
sets of these cylindrical mirrors, mounted concentrically in a nested array.
The use of more than one set of mirrors increases the area for collecting X-ray
energy, just as does increasing the mirror diameter in a visible-light
telescope.  The aperture diameter of the largest mirror set will be 47.2 in.
(1.2 m), making it the largest X-ray grazing incidence telescope to date.  The
focal length of the mirror assembly will be 32.8 ft. (10 m).

	The specialized types of scientific information to be collected by
AXAF-I require that its design incorporate several sophisticated data
collection elements: a charge-coupled device imaging spectrometer and a
high-resolution camera in the observatory's focal plane; and two grating
spectrometers behind the high-resolution mirror assembly.  During observation
periods, these data will be stored on-board and periodically transmitted to the
ground for analysis.

	Weighing roughly 11,500 pounds (5,200 kg), the observatory will be
approximately 39 feet (11.9 m) long by 14 feet (4.2 m) in diameter.  It is
planned to be launched in late 1998, into a high elliptical orbit of 5,400 by
54,000 nautical miles (10,000 by 100,000 km).  AXAF-I is designed to have an
operational life of five years.


Development

	Following a competitive procurement, TRW Inc. of Redondo Beach, Calif.,
was selected in August 1988 as the prime contractor to develop what was then
planned as the single-mission Advanced X-Ray Astrophysics Facility. TRW's major
subcontractors are Hughes Danbury Optical Systems of Danbury, Conn., and Kodak
Federal Systems Division of Rochester, N.Y. Following the 1992 restructuring
which created a two-mission AXAF program, the prime contractor's role was
modified to reflect those changes.  TRW's effort was specified as encompassing
development and initial operation of AXAF-I. The companion AXAF-S was
designated an in-house project to be accomplished by the Marshall Space Flight
Center in Huntsville, Ala.

	Management of the overall AXAF program, including supervision of
design, development, assembly and testing activities and the establishment of
the Operations Control Center is performed for NASA by the Marshall Center. The
Office of Space Science and Applications at NASA Headquarters in Washington,
D.C. is responsible for the overall direction of the program.

AXAF-S

	AXAF-S, the second mission, will concentrate on the area of high energy
X-ray spectroscopy, by which scientists study the chemical and physical
characteristics of celestial objects.  Different chemical elements emit or
absorb radiation at characteristic wavelengths or energies, producing spectral
lines which serve as "signatures" to uniquely identify the elements making up a
source.  In addition to providing insights regarding the chemistry of celestial
objects, such spectra can reveal their structural and dynamic features.

Key Features

	Just as the overall design and major components of the AXAF-I
observatory will be tailored toward its principal objective, X-ray imaging of
objects, those of AXAF-S will be specialized to best accomplish its primary
function of spectroscopy.

	As presently envisioned, the mirror assembly will consist of
approximately 40 formed metallic shells nested together, with a focal length of
15.7 ft. (4.8 m).  The largest mirror shell will be 17.7 in. (0.45 m) in
diameter.  As with the imaging observatory, the use of an array of concentric
mirrors allows intercepting a high percentage of the X-rays entering the
instrument's aperture.

	The X-ray spectrometer will be the heart of the AXAF-S instrument
package and is being provided for the mission by NASA's Goddard Space Flight
Center in Greenbelt, Md. Specifically, the spectrometer will provide unique
capabilities in high-resolution spectroscopy at energies above 4,000 electron
volts.  That is, it will be most sensitive in the portion of the energy
spectrum spanning the mid to upper, or shorter-wavelength, portion of the X-ray
band.  Its high resolution will enable distinguishing spectral lines which are
very close together in wavelength.  These characteristics will make the
instrument's spectroscopic capabilities complementary to those of AXAF-I.

	AXAF-S is expected to weigh approximately 7,000 pounds (3,150 kg), have
an overall length of 21.5 feet (6.55 m), and a diameter of 6.5 feet (2.0 m).

Development and Launch

	Plans to launch a separate observatory known as AXAF-S emerged from the
1992 AXAF program restructuring.  Along with the decision to develop two

specialized, complementary missions, it was decided that AXAF-S should be
undertaken by the Marshall Center as an "in-house" effort, as opposed to the
more traditional method of having the work performed by a contractor team.

	The in-house decision does not, however, mean all work on the 10-plus-
year-long AXAF-S program (seven in development and at least three years of
operations) will be performed by NASA employees at NASA facilities.  The
project team will obtain many elements for the observatory from suppliers
specializing in particular types of hardware, just as a prime contractor would.

	Completion of AXAF-S is planned for 1999, in preparation for a launch
near the end of that year.  To enable the highest efficiency in observation
time, the observatory will be launched into a polar, Sun-synchronous orbit.
That is, it will circle the Earth such that each orbit takes it above the north
and south poles, while maintaining the solar arrays exposed to the Sun for most
of the year.  This is possible by having the observatory's orbit plane progress
around the Earth at the same rate that the Earth progresses around the Sun,
thus maintaining a constant relationship to the Sun. Placing the observatory
into such an orbit requires a launch from the Vandenberg Air Force Base in
California. A Delta II expendable launch vehicle will loft AXAF-S to an
altitude of approximately 350 nautical miles (650 km).

	The launch will begin what is planned as at least a three-year
operational life for the observatory in which its specialized capabilities --
complementing those of AXAF-I -- will be used by scientists to pursue major
advances in our understanding of the most basic nature of the universe.

AXAF OPERATIONS CONTROL CENTER
AND SCIENCE CENTER

	Once each observatory is in orbit, the focal points for the two
missions will be the AXAF Operations Control Center at the Marshall Space
Flight Center and the AXAF Science Center at Cambridge, Mass. The two
facilities will be electronically linked for the most efficient interaction in
mission planning and data transfer.  The facilities will each serve specialized
functions:

o The AXAF Science Center will assist the international science community in
preparing for the AXAF missions, specifically in areas such as preparation of
research proposals, planning of science observations, and calibration of
instruments prior to their installation in the observatories.  The Science
Center will also manage the receipt, calibration, distribution and analysis of
data from observations.  In March 1991, a contract was awarded to the
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory for design, development, management and
operation of the Science Center. The contract is managed by the Marshall Space
Flight Center.

o The AXAF Operations Control Center will receive observation requests from the
Science Center and integrate them into a detailed schedule for transmission to
the two spacecraft.  In addition, the Control Center will provide capabilities
for mission planning and scheduling, processing of telemetry, command
processing and management, attitude determination and sensor calibration.  It
will interface with NASA's Deep Space Network and Space Network for spacecraft
communications.

* * *

	During their years of orbital operation, the two AXAF missions will
fill a major gap in the ability of astronomers to view the universe with the
widest possible scope.  AXAF will bridge the region of energy wavelengths
between those covered by the Hubble Space Telescope and by the Compton Gamma
Ray Observatory. The AXAF program represents a major stride toward advancing
the new age of astronomy and astrophysics.




