Cocaine Lies

  After nearly a decade of being America's glamour drug, researchers are 
starting to uncover the truth about cocaine.
  It's emerging as a very dangerous substance.
  No one thinks the things described here will ever happen to them.  But you 
can never be certain.  Whenever and however you use cocaine, you're playing 
Russian roulette.

You can't get addicted to cocaine.

  Cocaine was once thought to be non-addictive, because users don't have the 
severe 'physical' withdrawal symptoms of heroin- delirium, muscle-cramps, and 
convulsions.
  However, cocaine is intensely addicting 'psychologically'.
  In animal studies, monkeys with unlimited access to cocaine self-administer 
until they die.  One monkey pressed a bar 12,800 times to obtain a single dose
of cocaine.  Rhesus monkeys won't smoke tobacco or marijuana, but 100% will 
smoke cocaine, preferring it to sex and to food- even when starving.
  Like monkey, like man.
  If you take cocaine, you run a 10% chance of addiction.  The risk is higher 
the younger you are, and may be as high as 50% for those who smoke cocaine. 
(Some crack users say they felt addicted from the first time they smoked.)
  When you're addicted, all you think about is getting and using cocaine. 
Family, friends, job, home, possessions, and health become unimportant.
  Because cocaine is expensive, you end up doing what all addicts do.  You 
steal, cheat, lie, deal, sell anything and everything, including yourself. All
the while you risk imprisonment.  Because, never forget, cocaine is illegal.
  There's no way to tell who'll become addicted.  But one thing is certain.
  No one who is an addict, set out to become one.

C'mon, just once can't hurt you.

  Cocaine hits your heart before it hits your head.  Your pulse rockets and 
your blood pressure soars.  Even if you're only 15, you become a prime 
candidate for a heart attack, a stroke, or an epileptic-type fit.
  In the brain, cocaine mainly affects a primitive part where the emotions are
seated.  Unfortunately, this part of the brain also controls your heart and 
lungs.
  A big hit or a cumulative overdose may interrupt the electrical signal to 
your heart and lungs.  They simply stop.  That's how basketball player Len 
Bias died.
  If you're unlucky the first time you do coke, your body will lack a chemical
that breaks down the drug.  In which case, you'll be a first time O.D.  Two 
lines will kill you.

Sex with coke is amazing.

  Cocaine's powers as a sexual stimulant have never been proved or disproved. 
However, the evidence seems to suggest that the drug's reputation alone serves
to heighten sexual feelings.  (The same thing happens in Africa, where natives
swear by the powdered rhinoceros horn as an aphrodisiac.)
  What is certain is that continued use of cocaine leads to impotence and 
finally complete loss of interest in sex.

It'll make you feel great.

  Cocaine makes you feel like a new man, the joke goes.  The only trouble is, 
the first thing the new man wants is more cocaine.
  It's true.  After the high wears off, you may feel a little anxious, 
irritable, or depressed.  You've got the coke blues.  But fortunately, they're
easy to fix, with a few more lines or another hit on the pipe.
  Of course, sooner of later you have to stop.  Then- for days at a time- you 
may feel lethargic, depressed, even suicidal.
  Says Dr. Arnold Washton, one of the country's leading cocaine experts: "It's
impossible for the nonuser to imagine the deep, vicious depression that a
cocaine addict suffers from."

This information provided by
Partnership for a Drug-Free America
and the crew of the Starship LOGOS (BBS)
