4/8/92: COMPTON OBSERVATORY DETECTS ACTIVE GALAXIES

Michael Braukus
Headquarters, Washington, D.C.                 April 8, 1992

Randee Exler
Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Md.

RELEASE:  92-47

	NASA's Compton Gamma Ray Observatory has made the first
detection of high-energy gamma rays from a class of active galaxies
similar to quasars.  The observations, made by the Energetic Gamma
Ray Experiment Telescope (EGRET), suggest that high-energy gamma
radiation provides a substantial contribution to the objects' overall
luminosity.

	These active galaxies are called BL Lacertae objects, a type
of "quasar-like" object that emits vast but varying amounts of
energy.  The candidate objects are in the constellations Ursa Major,
Pictor and Camelopardalis. They are designated as MK 421, 0537-441
and 0716+714, respectively.

	These new gamma-ray results support the hypothesis that BL
Lacertae objects, like quasars, may be powered by supermassive black
holes.  The detection of these high energy gamma rays also provides
another piece of evidence suggesting their similarity to quasars and
adds important new insight into understanding the nature of BL
Lacertae objects.

	The EGRET science team previously reported detection of high
energy gamma rays from six quasars.  The most intense, called 3C 279,
registered a total high-energy gamma ray emission more than 10- to
100-million times that of the Milky Way galaxy.

	EGRET, one of four instruments aboard the Compton
Observatory, was assembled in-house by the Goddard Space Flight
Center, Greenbelt, Md. The U.S. Principal Investigator for EGRET is
Dr. Carl Fichtel of NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center.

	Co-principal investigators for EGRET are Dr. Carl Fichtel, of
Goddard, and Dr. Klaus Pinkau, Max Planck Institute for
Extraterrestrial Physics, Garching, Germany. EGRET is the joint
effort by scientists and engineers at Goddard; Stanford University,
Calif.; Max Planck Institute and Grumman Aerospace Corp., Bethpage,
N.Y.

	The second of NASA's Great Observatories, the Compton
Observatory was launched April 5, 1991, by the Space Shuttle Atlantis
to study high-energy radiation from space.  The Compton Observatory
is managed and operated by Goddard for NASA's Office of Space Science
and Applications, Washington, D.C.

- end -
