8/03/93: COMPTON OBSERVATORY DISCOVERS INTENSE NEW X-RAY PULSAR

Paula Cleggett-Haleim
Headquarters, Washington, D.C.                     August 3, 1993

Jerry Berg
Marshall Space Flight Center, Huntsville, Ala.



RELEASE:  93-141

     Using NASA's Earth-orbiting Compton Gamma-Ray Observatory, scientists have
discovered a powerful pulsar which has become one of the brightest x-ray
sources in the sky during the past 2 weeks.

     A pulsar is an unusual celestial object or system that emits pulses of
radiation at regular intervals.  The new pulsar emits a pulse of x-rays every
93.5 seconds.  That also is the period of rotation for the pulsar.  A pulsar's
flashes of energy are emitted much like the sweeping motion of a lighthouse
beam.

     Several hundred pulsars emitting radio energy have been found, but only
about 30 have been found that emit x-rays, nearly all of them within the Milky
Way galaxy.  The new pulsar is thought to be one of an even smaller class of a
half-dozen objects called transient x-ray pulsars.  These undergo enormous
change in brightness on time-scales ranging from hours to years.

     The energy outbursts occur when matter, emitted as a "solar wind" from a
high-mass star, falls onto a neutron star in orbit around it.  A neutron star,
although it has a diameter of only about 12 miles (20 km), and about the same
mass as Earth's sun, has a much higher gravitational field since it is so
dense.

     Continued observations will be required to determine if the newly
discovered object definitely is an object of this type. "When we first saw this
pulsar in our data, it was a tremendous moment," said Dr. Robert B. Wilson of
the Space Science Laboratory at NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center,
Huntsville, Ala.

     "For 2 years we had been watching the data and up to now, we had only
observed previously known pulsars.  All such observations are useful in trying
to understand these objects, but it's much more exciting when you find
something new," Wilson said.

     The new object was first observed in data from a Compton instrument called
the Burst and Transient Source Experiment (BATSE), which can view the entire
sky simultaneously.  The source brightened from the initial detection level to
become as bright as any other known x-ray pulsar in five days, remained there
for about 2 weeks and now has started to decrease.

     The new pulsar is designated GRO J1008-57 and is in the southern
constellation Carina.

     The BATSE pulsar data analysis team which discovered the x-ray pulsar
is led by Wilson. Initial discovery of the pulsed signal from the object was
made by Mark Stollberg, a Ph.D. graduate student at the University of Alabama
in Huntsville, and Dr. Mark H. Finger of the Gamma Ray Observatory Science
Support Center at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Md.

     Astronomers around the world were notified of the new pulsar by a circular
distributed by the Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams in Cambridge,
Mass.

     A wide-field optical plate of the region containing the source has been
made by an observatory in Australia, under the direction of Dr. Malcolm Coe of
the University of Southhampton, England, to attempt to identify the companion
star.  BATSE alone can provide the location of the source to an accuracy of
only about 2 degrees, so it is a difficult task to find which star is the
optical counterpart.

     Special maneuvers of the Compton Observatory are being made so that the
other experiments aboard the observatory can view the new pulsar and perhaps,
supplement the BATSE data.

     The Compton Observatory has been providing data on x-ray pulsars since it
was launched by the Space Shuttle in April 1991.  Compton has observed about 15
of the objects to date.

     Most known x-ray pulsars were discovered by instruments on U.S. rockets
that flew in the 1960s, by U.S. and British experiments aboard spacecraft
during the 1970s and by European, Russian and Japanese experiments aboard
spacecraft during the 1980s.  GRO J1008-57 is the first discovered by a U.S.
spacecraft in more than 15 years.

     Compton is managed by the Goddard Space Flight Center for NASA's Office of
Space Science, Headquarters, Wash., D.C.
