Hubble Space Telescope's First 18 Months in Orbit Report

"From our home on the Earth, we look out into the distances and strive
to imagine the sort of world into which we are born.  Today we have
reached far out into space.  Our immediate neighborhood we know rather
intimately.  But with increasing distance our knowledge fades rapidly,
until at the last dim horizon we search among ghostly errors of
observations for landmarks that are scarcely more substantial.  The
search will continue.  The urge is older than history.  It is not
satisfied and it will not be suppressed. " 
                        -- Edwin P. Hubble
                           (1889 - 1953)


HUBBLE SPACE TELESCOPE

In April 1990, Space Shuttle Discovery launched Hubble Space Telescope
-- perhaps the most ambitious scientific mission NASA has ever
undertaken.

Then, in June 1990, came the disappointing news of spherical
aberration in the HST primary mirror.  Many concluded prematurely that
the project had no future.

But now, after 18 months in orbit, HST is in routine operation and has
surprised its early critics by producing results at the forefront of
science.  Regular Shuttle servicing missions should permit the
telescope to achieve its original scientific goals over a planned
15-year observing lifetime.



UPDATE:  18 months in Orbit


THE FIRST 18 MONTHS

More than 1,900 observations of nearly 900 astronomical objects have
already been carried out by HST.  Observations began with imaging but
now include spectroscopy.  Scientists obtain information on the
temperature, composition, and motion of an object by analyzing the
spectrum of radiation emitted or absorbed by the object.  Observing
time is in great demand by astronomers worldwide.


I THOUGHT IT WAS BROKEN.

Pluto and its close satellite Charon, barely distinguishable as
separate bodies in a ground-based image are clearly separated in the
HST image.  Because Charon is half the size of Pluto, this system is
often called the "double planet."

Ring of gas around Supernova 1987A, as shown in a HST image, was
ejected many thousands of years prior to the blast.  In combination
with spectroscopy by NASA's International Ultraviolet Explorer
satellite, HST measurements of the ring's angular size yielded the
distance to the supernova.

Q:  What's the real story with HST? I thought it was broken.
A:  Hubble Space Telescope is the most capable optical telescope
available to astronomers today, despite the mirror problem.  It is
producing images and spectral observations that place HST programs at
the forefront of astronomy.

Q:  How is that possible?
A:  First of all, HST has greater clarity of view than any
ground-based optical observatory, both because of the substantial
light-gathering power of its 94-inch mirror and because of its
location in space above the distorting effects of Earth's atmosphere.
In addition, its location in space permits HST to observe ultraviolet
radiation that does not penetrate the atmosphere.

Q:  But what about the mirror problem?
A:  Because the mirror was so perfectly polished -- albeit to a
slightly incorrect shape -- the effects of the spherical aberration
can often be removed by computer processing.  Many processed images
reveal breathtaking detail never before seen from the ground.

Q:  What is the long-range future of Hubble Space Telescope?
A:  Bright.  Through Shuttle servicing missions, which were planned
from the beginning, we can achieve the capabilities intended for HST
early in the observatory's 15-year mission lifetime.  Over this
period, HST should be able to achieve its original scientific
objectives.

IN FACT, Hubble Space Telescope is the most powerful optical telescope
in the world today:  it offers unmatched ability to image fine detail
and to study ultraviolet radiation from astronomical objects.


ACHIEVEMENTS AMID CHALLENGES

Star Regeneration in 47 Tucanae
In the cores of old globular clusters like 47 Tucanae, thousands of
stars are crowded into a region less than one light-year across.
Could these ancient stars ever be regenerated by stellar mergers or
collisions? Ground-based telescopes have not been able to answer this
question; their images of such cluster cores are smeared out by
atmospheric turbulence.  But in the core of 47 Tucanae, HST's clear
view from space has revealed dozens of hot blue luminous stars
radiating away energy so rapidly that they cannot have survived since
the birth of the cluster itself.  These observations provide the first
convincing evidence of recent star regeneration in old clusters.

HST images of Saturn, recorded at quarterly intervals of the planet's
10-hour	rotation period, show successive quadrants of the surface.  
Hundreds of such images, computer processed to bring out fine detail,
were assembled into a 1991 film to illustrate the progress of a giant
storm across Saturn's turbulent atmosphere.

Q:  Have you had to meet other challenges, besides the mirror?
A:  Yes -- which is not surprising for a complex system with 400,000
different parts.  For example, the solar-power arrays supplied by the
European Space Agency make HST "jitter"' or shake, every time the
spacecraft orbits into and out of daylight.  But we have fixed most of
the problem by writing special computer programs for the HST pointing
system.

Q:  Is HST especially vulnerable to malfunctions?
A:  Quite the opposite.  HST, as well as being serviceable in space,
was designed to provide high redundancy and extensive backup
capabilities.  For example, two gyroscopes used for pointing control
have stopped functioning; but we've activated two spare gyros to
continue normal operation, and another space is still available.
Overall, very few of HST's reserve capabilities have been needed so
far.

Q:  So the capability for forefront science remains high?
A:  Yes.  Consider scientific papers presented at the January 1992
meeting of the American Astronomical Society.  Of the papers reporting
space science observations -- which represented 25 percent of all the
observational papers -- one out of four described HST results.  And
demand for observing time remains strong.  In 1991, some 450
scientific groups submitted new proposals to use the telescope.

A storm was revealed in September 1990
by ground-based observations.  The HST observing schedule was quickly
modified to permit HST to track the disturbance, which by November had
spread to cover most of the plant.  White areas detected in images of
the storm are believed to be immense clouds of ammonia ice crystals,
lofted to high altitudes by violent winds.



BREAKTHROUGHS IN TECHNOLOGY


HUBBLE SPACE TELESCOPE, the creation of ten thousand people over two
decades of inspired effort, is by far the most complex and advanced
space observatory ever built.  The HST project team produced major
technological breakthroughs in order to meet the most demanding
observing requirements in space-science history.

Support Structure:
Constructed of lightweight, low-expansion, hand-formed graphite-epoxy
tubes, the structure holds HST optical components aligned within
1/10,000 of an inch during two abrupt temperature changes every 96
minutes as HST orbits into and out of sunlight.

Pointing Control System:
The most accurate ever devised for astronomy, incorporating unique,
high-spin-rate gyroscopes shielded against vibration and
electromagnetic disturbances caused by space radiation and solar
flares -- reduces pointing instability to an angle less than the width
of a dime seen 200 miles away.

Ultraviolet Performance:
The ultraviolet optical system is the most capable ever launched for
astronomical observations in this region of the electromagnetic
spectrum.  It has reflecting surfaces of unprecedented cleanliness and
smoothness to maximize the amount of ultraviolet radiation available
for imaging and spectroscopic analysis.

Serviceability:
This is the first NASA space mission designed for regular Space
Shuttle maintenance and upgrading over a planned 15-year mission
lifetime.  Forty-nine types of key components, including gyroscopes,
are accessible and readily replaceable on orbit to maintain and expand
HST capabilities.

CURRENT CAPABILITIES

Q:  What was HST designed to do?
A:  HST was designed to provide three capabilities:
    1. High angular resolution -- the ability to image fine detail;
    2. Ultraviolet performance -- the ability to produce ultraviolet
images and spectra; and
    3. High sensitivity -- the ability to detect very faint objects.

Q:  What can HST currently do?
A:  HST currently provides the first two capabilities. First of all,
for the brighter sources:
    1. Computer processing can be used to bring out much finer image
detail than can be provided by ground-based telescopes. In addition,
    2. Corrective optics, to be provided by the first Shuttle
servicing mission, will bring this scattered light back into focus,
allowing HST to achieve its original design goal and reach very
distant stars and galaxies.

High angular resolution
of HST compared with a ground-based image of the globular cluster M14
and an image recorded by HST after computer processing show the
ground-based image heavily blurred by atmospheric turbulence and
unable to reveal individual stars in the cluster center.

Ultraviolet spectroscopy
of the star Beta Pictoris by HST reveals streams of circumstellar gas
(CS) falling into the star.  From earlier optical and infrared
observation, Beta Pictoris is known to be surrounded by an orbiting
disk of matter that may be a planetary system in the process of
formation.  The HST ultraviolet observations probe the central regions
of the system and provide new insights into its dynamics.

High sensitivity
will be achieved through correction of spherical aberration by the
first Shuttle servicing mission.  The current HST image of a star is
broadened by the effect of the aberration.  The corrected stellar
image will meet the HST design goal by concentrating 60 to 70 percent
of the light within a small region near the image center, enabling HST
to study much fainter objects.

SERVICING PLAN

Q;  How does Shuttle servicing fit into your plans?
A:  HST is designed to be serviced by Space Shuttle crews.  It has 49
different types of key components readily replaceable in space, and 74
replacement parts are available right now.  We have always planned
servicing missions, at roughly 3-year intervals, to maintain HST's
operational capability and to upgrade its scientific performance as
new technologies become available.

Q:  What will you do on the first mission?
A:  Our current baseline planning calls for replacement of the solar
arrays, correction of the spherical aberration, and replacement of
other components as necessary -- for example, gyroscopes -- in late
1993 or early 1994.

Q:  And on later missions?
A:  We'll replace remaining first-generation instruments, which
represent earlier technology, with much more advanced second- and
third-generation instruments to provide even greater capability,
particularly for ultraviolet and infrared observations.

First Servicing Mission
Replace Solar Arrays
Correct Optics with WF/PC 11
And Costar
Replace 2 gyroscopes

Wide Field/Planetary Camera, workhorse of the HST observing program,
will be replaced by an optically corrected camera by astronauts on the
first Shuttle servicing mission in late 1993 or early 1994.

Later Servicing Missions  (1995-2005)
Install second-generation instruments to broaden infrared and
ultraviolet capabilities
Install third-generation instruments to increase sensitivity and
provide finer imaging and spectral detail
Boost HST spacecraft to higher altitude as required
Service other HST components as necessary

THE GREAT OBSERVATORIES

Compton Gamma Ray Observatory
launched in 1991, is now investigating the most energetic systems and
violent events in the Universe.  Compton has already shown that the
puzzling gamma-ray "bursts" observed by earlier satellites are
distributed uniformly across the sky, rather than concentrated toward
the plane of our Galaxy -- challenging current theories of burst
origin in neutron stars and suggesting that some other mechanism must
be responsible. (In operation).

Advanced X-Ray Astrophysics Facility (AXAF)
will use specially designed mirrors to image X rays from supernova
remnants, high-temperature stellar atmospheres, galactic "halos" and
nuclei, and other high-energy objects.  In September, 1991, the
initial pair of AXAF mirrors passed a series of stringent performance
tests at NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center.  (In development).

Hubble Space Telescope (HST),
launched in 1990, is already making discoveries at the forefront of
science, including clouds of high-velocity gas spiraling into the
center of an accretion disk around Beta Pictoris and a stellar
"fountain of youth" in the ancient globular cluster 47 Tucanae.  HST
will receive upgrades through Shuttle servicing missions over its
15-year mission lifetime.  (In operation).

Space Infrared Telescope Facility (SIRTF)
will use optics cooled to extremely low temperatures in order to
detect millions of faint infrared sources across the sky.  Particular
targets include the dense, warm clouds of dust and gas that pervade
star-forming regions in our own and other galaxies.  SIRTF will build
upon the extraordinary success of NASA's Explorer-class Infrared
Astronomical Satellite, which carried out the first all-sky survey of
infrared sources between 1983 and 1985.  (Technology under
development).

Hubble Space Telescope,
launched in April 1990, is now in routine operation, chalking up a
succession of scientific accomplishments despite a number of technical
challenges.  The tracking of a rare, giant storm on Saturn, the
unexpected detection of numerous clouds of hydrogen gas near our
Galaxy, and the discovery of a stellar "fountain of youth" in 47
Tucanaae, together with the exciting spectroscopy of Beta Pictoris,
are only some of the triumphs recorded to date.

HST's current scientific capabilities are outstanding, and its future
capabilities will be even better.  The first Shuttle servicing
mission, in late 1993 or early 1994, will end the "jitter" caused by
the solar arrays and give HST the high sensitivity needed to observe
very distant stars and galaxies.  Later servicing missions will
install the powerful second- and third- generation instruments that
have been planned from the start.  With these scheduled performance
enhancements, HST will be able to achieve its original scientific
goals over a planned 15-year observing lifetime.


"The exploration of space ... is one of the great adventures of all
time, and no nation which expects to be the leader of other nations
can expect to stay behind ...

We choose to go to the Moon in this decade, and do the other things,
not because they are easy, but because they are hard, because that
goal will serve to organize and measure the best of our energies and
skills, because that challenge is one that we are willing to accept,
one that we are unwilling to postpone, and one that we intend to
win..."
                     -- President John F. Kennedy
                        September 12, 1962