Path: ladwp!ladcgw.ladc.bull.com!orchard.la.locus.com!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!decwrl!csus.edu!netcomsv!mork!anson
From: anson@netcom.com (Anson Kennedy)
Newsgroups: sci.skeptic,alt.alien.visitors
Subject: Alien/U.S. Gov't Collusion
Message-ID: <f9kl-=#.anson@netcom.com>
Date: 18 Jun 92 19:54:58 GMT
Organization: Netcom - Online Communication Services  (408 241-9760 guest)
Lines: 253

Below is the text of a flyer someone sent me detailing the latest alien/
U.S. government collusion theory.  It is apparently a compilation of Bill
Coooper's stuff with a few Lear tidbits thrown in for spice.  The flyer
itself did not name the original source for this stuff, so if anyone has
info on just *who* put out this flyer, I'd appreciate it if you'd let me
know.

BEGIN FLYER

        THIS INFORMATION COULD SAVE YOUR LIFE AND FREEDOM

        THE COMING "OFFICIAL" ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE ALIEN
                        PRESENCE ON EARTH

     WHY "STAR WARS", THE HUBBEL [sic] SPACE TELESCOPE, THE
                    SUDDEN FALL OF COMMUNISM?

     WHAT IS GOING ON?  Something very SINISTER is going on.
     Polls  reveal  that  over  90%  of  the American people
     believe in  UFOs and  95% of  these people  believe the
     government is keeping  this knowledge from  the public.
     But why?  Are they  afraid the people will panic  if an
     "official"  announcement  were  made?    Hardly.   Such
     announcement would create  interest and excitement  and
     many questions, particularly  by the churches,  but not
     panic.  Why then the continued cover-up?

     There  is  overwhelming  evidence  in  the past several
     years   from   "whistle-blowers"   -  retired  military
     officers  who  have  finally  said,  "Enough is enough!
     It's time  the government  told the  people the truth!"
     These  officers,  such  as  Navy  intelligence officer,
     William Cooper, Major  John Lear (whose  father founded
     the  Lear-Jet  Corp.)  and  Air  Force  officer William
     English, to  name but  a few,  have all  discovered the
     truth, and at the risk of their very lives, are  trying
     to alert  YOU to  the secrets  behind the  UFOs and the
     Alien Presence on this  earth.  These people  worked on
     secret projects, had access to 'classified' Top  Secret
     documents,  had  seen  with  their  own eyes 'captured'
     aliens,  or  extraterrestrial  entities,  UFOs  and the
     incredible technology they brought with them.

     Sightings of 'UFOs' (unidentified flying objects)  have
     been  reported  throughout  history,  and  biblical and
     historic references to  "flaming chariots" huge  flying
     'birds' and odd-looking  beings predate our  history by
     thousands  of  years.    In  the  1940s  several  alien
     spacecraft  were  recovered  by  the  U.S.  and   other
     countries, along with  a few dead  aliens and one  live
     one they named  EBE (a name  suggested by Dr.  Vannever
     Bush  and  was  short  for  Extraterrestrial Biological
     Entity).

     In 1953 astronomers  discovered large objects  in space
     which were moving toward Earth.  At first they believed
     these  were  asteroids,  but  later evidence proved the
     objects could  only be  spaceships.   Project Sigma and
     Project Plato intercepted radio communication and using
     the computer  binary language,  was able  to arrange  a
     landing  that  resulted  in  face-to-face  contact with
     alien beings from another planet.  Meanwhile, a race of
     human-looking  aliens  contacted  the  U.S. Government,
     warning us  that the  aliens orbiting  the equator were
     hostile  beings  from  Orion.   These human-type aliens
     demanded we dismantle and destroy our nuclear  weapons,
     that we were on a path of self-destruction and we  must
     stop killing each other, stop polluting the earth, stop
     raping the earth's natural resources and learn to  live
     in  harmony  with  one  another.   President Eisenhower
     rejected these demands.

     Later in 1954 the race of aliens, known as Greys,  from
     Zeta Reticuli area in space, who had been orbiting  the
     equator,  landed  at  Holloman  Air  Force  Base.  They
     stated their planet was dying and they needed  quarters
     on  earth  to  conduct  genetic  experiments that might
     allow  their  race  to  survive;  this  in exchange for
     certain  technology.    They  could  abduct humans on a
     limited basis  for the  purpose of  medical examination
     and monitoring,  with the  stipulation that  the humans
     would not be harmed,  would be returned to  their point
     of abduction, that  the human would  have no memory  of
     the event.  It was  also agreed that alien bases  would
     be constructed underground, beneath Indian reservations
     in the 4 corners area of Utah, New Mexico, Arizona  and
     Colorado.  Another was  to be constructed in  Nevada in
     the area known as S-4, about 7 miles south of Area  51,
     known as  'Dreamland.'   A multi-billion  dollar secret
     fund was organized and  kept by the Military  Office of
     the White House, supposedly to build secret underground
     sites for the President  and staff in case  of military
     attacks.

     By secret  Executive Memorandum,  NSC 5410,  Eisenhower
     established a  permanent committee  known as  "Majority
     Twelve"  (MJ-12)  to  oversee  and  conduct  all covert
     activities with the aliens.  This included FBI director
     J.  Edgar  Hoover  and  six  leaders of the 'Council on
     Foreign Relations,  known as  the 'Wise  Men' and later
     others from  the Trilateral  Commission.   George Bush,
     Gordon Dean, and Brzezinski were among them.

     A major finding of  the commission was the  aliens were
     using  humans  and  animals  for  a source of glandular
     secretions, enzymes, hormonal secretions, blood and  in
     horrible  genetic  experiments.    The aliens explained
     these actions as necessary for their survival, that  if
     their genetic structure  were not improved,  their race
     would cease to exist.

     The ruling powers decided that one means of funding the
     alien project was to corner the illegal drug market.  A
     young  ambitious  member  of  the  Council  on  Foreign
     Relations was approached.  His name is George Bush  who
     at the  time was  president and  CEO of  Zapata Oil Co.
     based  in  Texas.    Zapata  Oil was experimenting with
     offshore  oil  drilling  and  it  was arranged that the
     drugs  could  be  shipped  from  South  America  to the
     offshore platforms by  fishing boats, then  transferred
     to  the  U.S.  shore  by  normal  transportation,  thus
     avoiding search  by customs  agents.   The plan  worked
     better than anyone expected, and today the CIA controls
     all  the  world's  illegal  drug  markets.   One should
     remember, it was George Bush who first started  selling
     drugs to  our children.   The  drug money  was used  to
     finance the deep underground alien bases.

     Conclusions:  the Bilderburgers, the Council on Foreign
     Relations and the Trilateral Commission are the  SECRET
     GOVERNMENT and rule this  nation through MJ-12 and  the
     study group known as the Jason Society.

     Throughout history the  aliens have manipulated  and/or
     ruled the human race through various secret  societies,
     religion and the  occult.  The  CFR and the  Trilateral
     Commission  are  in  complete  control  of  the   alien
     technology and  the nation's  economy.   Eisenhower was
     the last president to  know the entire overview  of the
     alien problem.   Succeeding  presidents were  told only
     what MJ-12  wanted them  to know,  and it  was NOT  the
     truth.    MJ-12  presented  each  new  president with a
     picture  of  a  lost  alien  culture  seeking  to renew
     itself, build a home on this planet and shower us  with
     gifts of technology.   Each president bought the  story
     hook,  line  and  sinker.    Meanwhile  innocent people
     continue to suffer unspeakable horrors at the hands  of
     alien and human scientists who are engaged in barbarous
     research that would make the Nazis pale in  comparison.
     As if that is not enough many people end up as food for
     the insatiable alien  appetite for biological  enzymes,
     hormonal secretions and blood.  At least 1 in every  40
     Americans have been  implanted with alien  devices that
     are used to control them if necessity calls.

     By 1989 over 3 million 'Greys' are occupying these deep
     multi-level underground complexes.  Level 7 at Dulce is
     called "Nightmare  Hall."   They have  welched on their
     agreement on  abducting humans;  today over  25 million
     citizens have  been abducted  and implanted,  a literal
     army awaiting orders to  march!  (Whitley Strieber  has
     written bestselling books on his personal experience as
     have many others).  For this reason other nations  were
     informed.    Within  5  months  the  communist monolith
     Russia was dismantled  to unite with  the U.S. and  its
     technology to  fight the  invasion.   The Hubbel  [sic]
     Space Telescope was created  to keep a watchful  eye on
     the  invasion  fleet;  Star  Wars  technology  has been
     developed to hopefully stop them in outer space  before
     they can get to the earth.

     Today, the  government is  on the  horns of  a dilemma.
     Too many sources are releasing alien information.   The
     public could get angry at continued secrecy.  So  MJ-12
     plans soon  to make  an "official"  announcement, under
     controlled conditions,  probably Area  51.   Network TV
     will  be  called  to  meet  the staged 'landing' of the
     aliens, these being the Greys.  They will come  bearing
     gifts, technology that supposedly will heal cancer  and
     AIDS, retard aging,  etc.  They  will tell us  they are
     the 'saviors of humanity'  who have come to  defend the
     earth against an  invasion of man-eating  aliens called
     Reptoids.  This story is  a LIE, they already work  for
     the Reptoids!  Their plan is to unify the world into  a
     One-World-Government,  a  'New  World  Order'  with the
     argument  that  only  this  can  defeat the invasion by
     Reptoids.    This  is  a  trap  to  enslave the world's
     population.  Control  will be accomplished  through the
     money  system,  a  universal  currency  controlled   by
     certain international bankers, who for years have  been
     lackeys of the aliens, who seized upon their greed  and
     lust for  wealth and  power as  a means  to bring about
     their evil plan to control the earth.  (This also being
     the  scenario  predicted   in  the  Bible's   'Book  of
     Revelation'  [sic]  wherein  only  those who accept the
     Mark of the Beast  (the aliens'being [sic] the  'Beast'
     and  the  'Mark'  being  some  sort  of laser tattoo or
     Credit Card they will  use, which will allow  people to
     buy and  sell goods).   Those  who do  not accept  this
     'Mark' must live outside  the money system and  survive
     somehow on their own, through barter etc.

     SO BE AWARE!  ONLY YOUR KNOWLEDGE OF THIS FAKE INVASION
     AND FAKE RAPTURE CAN PREVENT IT FROM HAPPENING.  DEMAND
     THE TRUTH  FROM YOUR  GOVERNMENT.   TELL THEM  YOU KNOW
     ABOUT THE ALIENS AND THAT THERE ARE GOOD ALIENS AND BAD
     ALIENS AND THAT MJ-12  IS PROMOTING THE BAD  ALIENS AND
     THE ONE WORLD GOVERNMENT THEY HOPE TO CONTROL.

     INSIST ON THE TRUE STORY  OF THE ALIEN PRESENCE!   YOUR
     LIFE COULD DEPEND UPON IT, AS WELL AS YOUR FREEDOMS!

           FOR FURTHER RESEARCH AND MORE INFORMATION:

     Arcturus Book Service: PO Box 83183, Stone Mt., GA 30083
     (Specialists in UFO books and magazines, tapes, videos)

     WorldWide UFO News Clipping Bureau & Public Information
     Center, 955 Lancaster Rd. Suite 420, Orlando, FL 32809
     (Tapes, videos etc. on UFOs and Alien Presence)

     C.A.C. Box 115, Olympia,  Wa [sic] 98507 (Cosmic  Newsletter
     with much information on UFOs and Alien Presence)

     The William Cooper Foundation, 19744 Beach Blvd. No. 301
     Huntington Beach, Cal. 92648. Phone: (602) 567-6536

     Stanley K. Barrington, 2059 East Ave. I, Sp. 11, Lancaster,
     CA 93535



     BOOKS: An Alien Harvest, by Linda Moulton Howe, PO Box 3130,
     Littleton, CO 80161 (Secret of the cattle mutilations)

     The Gulf Breeze Sightings, by  Ed Walters, Wm. Morrow &  Co.
     Pub.

     The Watchers, by Raymond Fowler, Bantam Books, N.Y.

     Communion, by Whitley Strieber, Wm. Morrow Pub. N.Y.

     Ask your local bookstore!

            CIRCULATE THIS INFORMATION, MAKE 30 COPIES!

-- 

Anson Kennedy
Secretary of the Georgia Skeptics (but don't even THINK I speak for them!)

                  "If I had been the Virgin Mary, I would have said 'No.'"
                                      -Margaret "Stevie" Smith (1902-1971)

